_documentation/en/messages/code-snippets/whatsapp/send-button-link.md, before:

---
title: Send a Link Button
meta_title: Send a link button on WhatsApp using the Messages API
---

# Send a Link Button

In this code snippet you learn how to send a link style button on WhatsApp. This uses Nexmo's [custom object](/messages/concepts/custom-objects) facility. You can reference the WhatsApp developer documentation for the specifics of the [message format](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/api/messages/message-templates/interactive-message-templates).

When the message recipient clicks on the link button, they will be prompted for permission to continue to the target link.

## Example

Ensure the following variables are set to your required values using any convenient method:

Key | Description
-- | --
`WHATSAPP_NUMBER` | The WhatsApp number that has been allocated to you by Nexmo.
`TO_NUMBER` | The phone number you are sending the message to.
`HEADER_IMAGE_URL` | The URL of the image to display in the template message header.

> **NOTE:** Don't use a leading `+` or `00` when entering a phone number, start with the country code, for example, 447700900000.

```code_snippets
source: '_examples/messages/whatsapp/send-button-link'
application:
  type: messages
  name: 'Send a link button to WhatsApp'
```

## Try it out

When you run the code a WhatsApp message containing a link button is sent to the recipient. In this example the button is a link to package tracking information.

## Further information

* [Custom objects](/messages/concepts/custom-objects)
* [WhatsApp documentation for Link Button](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/api/messages/message-templates/interactive-message-templates)

Commit message:

Use template namespace and name

_documentation/en/messages/code-snippets/whatsapp/send-button-link.md, after:

---
title: Send a Link Button
meta_title: Send a link button on WhatsApp using the Messages API
---

# Send a Link Button

In this code snippet you learn how to send a link style button on WhatsApp. This uses Nexmo's [custom object](/messages/concepts/custom-objects) facility. You can reference the WhatsApp developer documentation for the specifics of the [message format](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/api/messages/message-templates/interactive-message-templates).

When the message recipient clicks on the link button, they will be prompted for permission to continue to the target link.

## Example

Ensure the following variables are set to your required values using any convenient method:

Key | Description
-- | --
`WHATSAPP_NUMBER` | The WhatsApp number that has been allocated to you by Nexmo.
`TO_NUMBER` | The phone number you are sending the message to.
`WHATSAPP_TEMPLATE_NAMESPACE` | The Namespace ID found in your WhatsApp Business Account.
`WHATSAPP_TEMPLATE_NAME` | The name of the template created in your WhatsApp Business Account.
`HEADER_IMAGE_URL` | The URL of the image to display in the template message header.

> **NOTE:** Don't use a leading `+` or `00` when entering a phone number, start with the country code, for example, 447700900000.

```code_snippets
source: '_examples/messages/whatsapp/send-button-link'
application:
  type: messages
  name: 'Send a link button to WhatsApp'
```

## Try it out

When you run the code a WhatsApp message containing a link button is sent to the recipient. In this example the button is a link to package tracking information.

## Further information

* [Custom objects](/messages/concepts/custom-objects)
* [WhatsApp documentation for Link Button](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/api/messages/message-templates/interactive-message-templates)
